hey everyone I'm bourke-white here at
Leland and I'm going to teach you how to
convert a loop fly rail left to right
right to left this is the loop poppy
this is the loop Evo tech g4 and this is
the loop multi I'm going to show you how
to do it with the opti but the good news
is whether you have any of these reels
the drag change process is the same
before we get started on any real what I
recommend is crank down the drag to make
sure you don't even have to change some
people get confused think they have
right left and so on you just want to
make sure that your drag is oriented a
certain way right now this is left hand
line because it's smooth going this way
and there's some resistance going the
other way so check yours first before
you go through this process let me show
you how it's done
before I get started I always lay out a
towel or a cloth of some sort you really
only need two tools one is a small allen
wrench which actually comes with a loop
reel and the other is just a flat blade
screwdriver the first step is to remove
the spool from the frame and there is a
knob a screw cap in the center of the
spool lefty loosey
just unscrew that once it's unscrewed
you can set that aside and you can
easily pull the spool off the frame of
the reel now what you're looking at is
the drag assembly in the middle to get
at that we have to remove the drag knob
from the back side of the frame luckily
I have my small allen wrench here I can
get in and unscrew the drag knob
literally comes right off place that on
your white towel so you don't lose it on
the backside of the frame you can see
there's a little insert for your flat
blade screwdriver go ahead and unscrew
that won't come out but what it's going
to do is release the drag cassette this
will come off on the back side set that
aside and the whole drag cassette comes
out in one handy little unit I'm also
holding the drawbar that went through
the center of that I'm going to set that
aside now if you look inside here you'll
see a whole bunch of sealed bearings and
most importantly you'll see a blue oh
ring and that's what keeps your awesome
power matrix drag fully sealed from salt
or freshwater very lightly with the
business in your flat blade screwdriver
you can work that seal upward until it
pops right out set that aside your goal
next is to take the cassette and knock
all the working parts out and that's
usually done with a few taps we really
only have a few working parts here we
have a sealed bearing on the inside of
the cassette and this is its counterpart
we have two metal washers and we have
two carbon washers in the middle is your
unidirectional needle bearing and that's
the clutch of the mechanism it smoothly
rolls one way catches and that's when
your drag comes into play so all we have
to do is flip it from one side to the
other when you're ready to put it back
together all you have to do is stack in
this order
it goes washer then it goes carbon
washer clutch carbon washer metal washer
and then you're sealed bearing race
again all right so let's put this back
together the first thing I'll tell you
is each one of these metal washers
including the bearing clutch has three
little nubs on the outer ring and
internally in the cassette you have
ridges so as I'm dropping these back in
all you have to do is align the ridges
and it will falling neatly next goes a
carbon washer followed by our inverted
clutch mechanism and that's going to
change the retrieve service remember
there's three little knobs on this one
as well so you want to align them
accordingly so they'll fall correctly so
now that I have it aligned we can put
the bearing clutch in place followed by
a carbon washer and followed by the
stainless steel washer I then put my
seal bearing race on top and make sure
that fits in and one final step is to
take our oring and make sure it fits in
nice and tight that's going to ensure
that our seal drag system is exactly
that fully sealed we've done most of the
work already now we just need to
reassemble the reel you can take your
dry cassette and place it back into the
frame of the wheel and it will seat
nicely the next step is to take your
stainless steel drawbar and insert that
in the middle of the reel and if you
spin it what will happen next is the
threaded piece will stick out the back
side taking your drag adjustment you can
start to thread it and with our flat
blade screwdriver tighten it up it's now
time to mount the spool back to the
frame you'll notice on the inside
there's a small tongue of metal and that
has to integrate correctly with a groove
in the drag ASET and if you kind of
visually line that up the spool then
hops in place on the frame take your
spool knob or your cap screw that in
with your flat blade screwdriver it's
now time to set the proper amount of
drag what I like to do
is back off the drag setting as lightly
as possible checking it and on this reel
which is the the runner it's a good six
maybe seven weight reel so I'm trying to
envision whom the lightest said setting
of drag that I would probably ever use
that's good we're on the home stretch
this is the drag knob and there's really
only one thing you have to remember here
is since our setting for our drag is at
its lightest setting we want to make
sure that this drag knob is backed all
the way to the left where it would act
at the lightest adjustment on the drag I
didn't take my allen wrench and
reattaching the drag knob so we've
officially switched the retrieve on the
loop opti run which by the way is the
same process on the loop Evo tech g4
that's the one with the L on the back as
well as the loop multi fly reel same
process now if you're a hand person feel
free to do it at home if you're not we'd
be happy to do it for you it's real
simple if you bought your loop fly rail
from us just send it in and we'll change
the retrieve for free if you bought your
loop reel from some other dealer and we
still got your back you can contact us
we'd be happy to convert the reels drag
for you we charge ninety five dollars an
hour for this but as you saw something
like this really doesn't take very long
so you're probably looking at only
thirty forty dollars at the most that's
really it so if you have any questions
give us a call otherwise thanks for
watching I'll see you on the water